five healthy techniques that psychological research has shown to help reduce stress in the short- and 
long-term.

1. Take a break from the stressor. It may seem difficult to get away from a big work project, a crying 
baby or a growing credit card bill. But when you give yourself permission to step away from it, you let
 yourself have time to do something else, which can help you have a new perspective or practice 
techniques to feel less overwhelmed. It’s important to not avoid your stress (those bills have to be 
paid sometime), but even just 20-minutes to take care of yourself is helpful.

2.Exercise. The research keeps growing — exercise benefits your mind just as well as your body. We keep 
hearing about the long-term benefits of a regular exercise routine. But even a 20-minute walk, run, 
swim or dance session in the midst of a stressful time can give an immediate effect that can last for 
several hours.

3.Smile and laugh. Our brains are interconnected with our emotions and facial expressions. When people 
are stressed, they often hold a lot of the stress in their face. So laughs or smiles can help relieve 
some of that tension and improve the situation.

4.Get social support. Call a friend, send an email. When you share your concerns or feelings with 
another person, it does help relieve stress. But it’s important that the person whom you talk to is 
someone whom you trust and whom you feel can understand and validate you. If your family is a stressor,
for example, it may not alleviate your stress if you share your works woes with one of them.

5.Meditate. Meditation and mindful prayer help the mind and body to relax and focus. Mindfulness can 
help people see new perspectives, develop self-compassion and forgiveness. When practicing a form of 
mindfulness, people can release emotions that may have been causing the body physical stress. Much 
like exercise, research has shown that even meditating briefly can reap immediate benefits.